>> Stephen: WELCOME BACK,
EVERYBODY.
MY NEXT GUEST IS A PROFESSOR OF
PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS AT
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY, A
BESTSELLING AUTHOR, AND AN
ALL-AROUND SMARTY PANTS.
HE'S HERE TO TELL US ABOUT THE
DISCOVERY OF GRAVITATIONAL WAVES
AND WHY IT'S A HUGE DEAL.
PLEASE WELCOME OUR FRIEND, BRIAN
GREENE.
GOOD TO HAVE YOU HERE.
YOU'RE CODIRECTOR OF COLUMBIA'S
INSTITUTE FOR STRINGS,
COSMOLOGY, AND ASTROPARTICLE
PHYSICS.
>> YES.
>> Stephen: THAT'S A PRETTY
GOOD PICKUP LINE.
SINCE LAST WE WERE TOGETHER,
SCIENTISTS DETECTED
GRAVITATIONAL WAVES.
I UNDERSTAND THIS IS SOMETHING
EINSTEIN PREDICTED.
>> YES.
>> Stephen: HOW LONG AGO?
>> 100 YEARS AGO THIS YEAR, IN
1916.
THIS IS A HUGE DISCOVERY, NOT
ONLY CONFIRMING EINSTEIN'S IDEAS
BUT OPENING A WHOLE NEW WAY OF
EXPLORING THE UNIVERSE.
>> Stephen: DOES HE SEEM EVEN
SMARTER NOW THAN HE USED TO
SEEM?
>> HE'S, LIKE, SO UP THERE, THAT
THERE IS NO GETTING SMARTER.
IT'S LIKE INFUNT, FURTHER NORTH
THAN THE NORTH POLE.
>> Stephen: THE SCIENTISTS ARE
STILL DOING HIS HOMEWORK FROM
100 YEARS AGO
( LAUGHTER ).
>> YEAH, HE HAS GIVEN US AN
INCREDIBLY RICH LEGACY THAT WE
HAVE BEEN PURSUING, YEAH, FOR
100 YEARS.
EVERYTHING THAT I'VE DONE IN MY
OWN CAREER REALLY HAS, IN SOME
SENSE, BEEN TRYING TO PUSH
FORWARD ON THE PATH THAT HE
FIRST BLAZE GLD WHAT IS A
GRAVITATIONAL WAVE, AND WHY DOES
IT CHANGE EVERYTHING?
>> SO AIR, GRAVITATIONAL WAVE IS
ACTUALLY A RIPPLE IN THE FABRIC
OF SPACE.
WE KNOW YOU THROW A PEBBLE INTO
A POND, THE WATER RIPPLES.
NOW, THIS IS A RIPPLE, BUT NOT
WITH WATER.
IT'S IN SPACE ITSELF.
>> Stephen: YOU ARE BLOWING MY
MIND AGAIN.
( LAUGHTER )
SO WHAT ARE WE LOOK AT HERE?
>> THIS IS EINSTEIN'S GENERAL
RELATIVITY WHICH HE DISCOVERED
IN 1915, A YEAR EARLIER, AND THE
KEY IDEA IS HE FOUND GRAVITY
COMES FROM THE WARPS AND CURVES
IN THE SPACE.
THE SUN WARPS THE SPACE AND
KEEPS THE EARTH IN ORBIT.
>> Stephen: LIKE A BOWLING
BALL ON A TRAMPOLINE.
>> TRAMPOLINE, EXACTLY RIGHT.
WHAT HAPPENED IS, THIS IS 1915.
HE DISWNT JUST STOP.
HE KEEPS GOING, AND A YEAR LATER
HE REALIZES IF SPACE IS LIKE A
TRAMPOLINE, THEN IMAGINE KIDS
RUNNING AROUND ON A TRAMPOLINE.
THEY'RE GOING TO SEND RIPPLES ON
THE SURFACE.
SO HE SAYS THE SAME SHOULD BE
TRUE OF THE FABRIC OF SPACE.
IF YOU'VE QOT TWO RAPIDLY
ORBITING STARS, NEUTRON STARS OR
BLACK HOLES, HIS MATH PREDICTS
THAT THEY WILL GENERATE A STEADY
MARCH OF RIPPLES IN THE FABRIC
OF SPACE.
THOSE ARE GRAVITATIONAL WAVES
THAT HE PREDICTED
MATHEMATICALLY.
>> Stephen: AND NOW THEY HAVE
BEEN DETECTED.
>> YES.
>> Stephen: WHAT HAPPENED THAT
ALLOWED US TO DO THAT?
>> YEAH, SO HIS MATH ALSO SHOWS,
AS WE GO ON FROM HERE TO THE
NEXT SEQUENCE, HIS MATH SHOWS AS
A GRAVITATIONAL WAVE RIPPLES BY
ANYTHING, IT WILL STRETCH IT AND
COMPRESS IT.
YOU SEE IT HAPPENING--
>> Stephen: LIKE THE EARTH.
>> LIKE THE EARTH RIGHT HERE.
>> Stephen: BECAUSE WE'RE A
PART OF THE FABRIC OF SPACE TIME
YOU AND ME AND THE EARTH IS
STRETCHING AND COMPRESSING,
ALONG WITH THE RIPPLING OF SPACE
TIME.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
THE ONE THING, IS THIS IS
EXAGGERATE GLD I HOPE SO.
>> A LITTLE BIT.
>> Stephen: I HOPE SO, I HOPE
SO.
>> THE RIPPLES WOULD ACTUALLY
CAUSE THE EARTH TO STRETCH AND
COMPRESS BY LESS THAN AN ATOMIC
DIAMETER.
>> Stephen: HOW DO YOU-- HOW
DO YOU MEASURE THAT?
>> HOW DO YOU MEASURE THAT?
>> Stephen: YES.
THAT'S WHAT I SAID?
>> YEAH.
( LAUGHTER ).
>> YEAH, THAT'S WHAT PEOPLE--
THOUSANDS OF SCIENTISTS HAVE
BEEN WORKING ON FOR 40, 50
YEARS.
THIS AMAZING TEAM OF
RESEARCHERS, LIGO, LASER
INTERFEROMETER GRAVITATIONAL
WAVE OBSERVATORY, JUST TWO WEEKS
AGO THEY ANNOUNCED THE FIRST
DETECTION OF THESE GRAVITATIONAL
WAVES USING A SPECTACULAR PIECE
OF EQUIPMENT.
THERE ARE ACTUALLY TWO OF THEM,
ONE IN LOUISIANA AND THE ENERGY
WASHINGTON STATE.
>> Stephen: AND I UNDERSTAND
THIS INVOLVES LASERS.
>> LASERS.
IN FACT WE SLAILGT MODEL VERSION
OF IT HERE IF YOU WANT TO CHECK
IT OUT.
IN THIS DEVICE HERE-- IN FACT IF
WE BRING THE LIGHTS DOWN, IT
WILL BE EASIER TO SEE.
WE HAVE A LASER, RIGHT HERE,
THAT'S SENDING OUT A BEAM THAT
THIS DEVICE HERE SPLITS INTO
TWO.
AND YOU CAN SEE THEY GO THAT
DIRECTION TOWARD THE RIGHT, OUR
RIGHT, AND THIS UPSTAGE OVER
HERE.
>> Stephen: AT WHAT POINT DO I
PUT ON THE PINK FLOYD?
>> LET'S DO IT NOW!
>> Stephen: ANOTHER ALL RIGHT.
>> SO IN THE REAL EXPERIMENT, IT
HITS A MIRROR THAT'S TWO AND A
HALF MILES AWAY.
>> Stephen: LIKE A
TWO-AND-A-HALF-MILE PIPE OR
SOMETHING?
>> A TWO-AND-A-HALF-MILE
EVACUATED PIPE, EXACTLY.
WHEN THE LASER BOUNCES BACK IT
RECOMBINES, LIKE COMMINGLES, AND
WHEN THEY COMMINGLE THEY CREATE
A VERY INTERESTING PATTERN.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU CAN SEE
TRIGHT HERE.
>> Stephen: THERE IT IS.
THERE IS AN IDEA OF THE PATTERN.
>> YOU HAVE BRIGHT AREAS.
THAT'S WHERE THE TWO BEAMS ARE
WORK TOGETHER.
THE DARK AREAS ARE WHERE THE
BEAMS ARE CANCELLING EACH OTHER
OUT.
AND THAT INTERFERENCE PATTERN IS
ABSOLUTELY KEY.
NOW, LET ME JUST SHOW YOU, SO IF
YOU BLOCK ONE OF THESE BEAMS
RIGHT HERE, YOU SEE HOW THE
INTERFERENCE PATTERN GOES AWAY.
THEY'RE NO LONGER COMMINGLING.
IF I RELEASE IT, NOW YOU SEE
THAT THEY ARE WORKING TOGETHER
TO CREATE THAT PATTERN.
>> Stephen: ALL RIGHT.
>> BUT THE KEY THING IS THIS
PATTERN IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON
THE DISTANCE THAT THE LASER BEAM
TRAVELS.
SO IF A GRAVITATIONAL WAVE ROLLS
BY AND STRETCHES ONE DISTANCE
RELATIVE TO ANOTHER --
>> EVEN JUST THE DISTANCE OF,
LIKE, THE-- NOT THE DIAMETER OF
AN ATOM.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THAT'S WHY THIS IS SUCH AN
AMAZING PIECE OF EQUIPMENT, THE
REAL ONE, OF COURSE, THAT'S OUT
THERE.
THIS IS JUST A MOD GLEL ANY
MOVEMENT IN THIS BEAM MAKES THAT
PATTERN CHANGE.
>> OBVIOUSLY WE CAN'T DO IT HERE
WITH THE GRAVITATIONAL WAVES BUT
WE CAN TRY IT, IF YOU'RE UP TO
TO, AN EXPERIMENT WITH SOUND
WAVES.
>>
>> Stephen: JUST YELL AT IT?
>> WE'LL SEE IF IT SHIFTS.
>> Stephen: SCIENCE!
SCIENCE!
>> WELL DONE, WELL DONE.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ).
>> Stephen: SO, WHAT CAN WE
DO?
NOW THAT WE KNOW THE
GRAVITATIONAL WAVES ARE BENDING
SPACE TIME LIKE THIS, HOW CAN IT
LET US SEE THE UNIVERSE IN A
DIFFERENT WAY?
>> YOU KNOW LIGHT CAN BE
BLOCKED, RIGHT?
IF I COVER MY FACE YOU DON'T SEE
ME ANY LONGER.
>> Stephen: THAT'S VERY
FRIGHTENING.
MEAS PLOOEZ DON'T DO THAT.
>> CAN'T BLOCK GRAVITY, WHICH
MEANS GRAVITY CAN GO INTO PLACES
IN THE UNIVERSE THAT LIGHT
CANNOT PENETRATE.
>> Stephen: WHAT!
>> YEAH.
HOW DO YOU BLOCK GRAVITY?
YOU ALWAYS FEELS THE EARTH'S
GRAVITY NO MATTER WHERE YOU GO.
USING THE GRAVITATIONAL SUFFER
FASES WE MAY BE ABLE TO STUDY
HOW BLACK HOLES COMBINE AND WE
MAY BE ABLE TO STUDY THE BIG
BANG ITSELF.
>> Stephen: THE SAME WAY YOU
CAN SET OFF A BOMB ON ONE SIDE
OF THE EARTH ARE YOU CAN EASE A
SEISMOGRAPH TO ECHO MAP THE
INSIDE OF THE PLANET, CAN HELP
US MAP THINGS WE CAN'T SEE?
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
THE DEVICE IS ONLY SENSITIVE TO
WAVES THE GRAVITY.
IT'S SHIELDED FROM ORDINARY
ENVIRONMENTAL INFLUENCES.
>> Stephen: WOW.
>> AND IN FACT, YOU CAN ACTUALLY
IN IN SOME SENSE HEAR THE
GRAVITATIONAL WAVES.
THEY VIBRATE AT A FREQUENCY THAT
IF YOU TURN IT INTO SOUND, THE
HUMAN AIR CAN HEAR.
>> Stephen: SO LITERALLY,
THESE WAVES CAN BE TURNED INTO
SOUND.
>> THEY CAN.
AND THESE ARE THE MOST
SPECTACULAR SOUNDS FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF THEY HERALD A
REVOLUTION IN OUR UNDERSTAND, OF
THE UNIVERSE.
>> Stephen: ANOTHER SO I
UNDERSTAND YOU BROUGHT ONE OF
THESE SOUNDS WITH YOU.
>> YEAH, YEAH, I DID.
>> Stephen:S AND THIS THE
SOUND OF WHAT?
WHAT ARE WE LISTENING TO?
>> THIS IS THE SOUND OF TWO
BLACK HOLES COLLIDING.
>> Stephen: THIS IS ACTUALLY A
COMPUTER RENDERING OF
GRAVITATIONAL WAVES INTO SOUNDS.
>> THIS IS A SIM LAIRKZ BUT THE
DATA AGREES WITH THE
SIMULATION.
>>
>> Stephen: THIS IS WHAT IT
WOULD SOUND LIKE.
>> THIS IS WHAT IT WOULD SOUND
LIKE.
>> Stephen: DRUM ROLL PLEASE.
( LAUGHTER )
>> Stephen: IS GOD BUGS BUNNY?
WHAT IS THAT?
>> BIG THINGS COME IN LITTLE
PACKAGES.
THOSE SOUNDS ARE REALLY US
THINGS ABOUT THE UNIVERSE THAT
WE HAVE NO OTHER WAY OF
DISCERNING.
THOSE KINDS OF SOUNDS ARE THE
FUTURE OF STUDYING THE COSMOS.
>> Stephen: WELL, THANK YOU
FOR BRINGING US THE FUTURE
TONIGHT.
BRIAN GREENE, WHAT A PLEASURE.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
GRAVITY WAVES.
BRIAN GREENE.
SCIENCE!